HOW TO CITE REFERENCES

This brief uses a special citation formatting program to automatically format
citations, calculate proper short and id.-citation forms, and generate the Table
of Authorities.

To cite a reference, DO NOT format the citation yourself. This will only require
me to undo the formatting in order to properly generate the Table of
Authorities. Instead, follow this procedure.


1. SELECT A NICKNAME AND OPTIONALLY UPDATE citations.tex

Each reference should be given a short nickname, to be used within the document
text. For example, the nickname for "Bilski v. Kappos, 130 S. Ct. 3218 (2010)"
is "bilski".

The file "citations.tex" identifies all nicknames of references and defines the
relevant information for each reference. For example, Bilski is defined as
follows:

    \defcase{bilski}{
        p=Bilski,
        d=Kappos,
        cite=130 S. Ct. 3218,
        year=2010
    }

You MAY append your new references to citations.tex, but it is not necessary. I
can do that for you if you just tell me what reference each nickname refers to.


2. SENTENCE AND CLAUSE CITATIONS

Most citations are either sentence-type citations or clause citations, the
difference being that sentence-type citations appear as independent sentences
and clauses as comma-set clauses within a sentence. For example:

Sentence citation:
The MOT test is an important clue. Bilski, 130 S. Ct. at 3220.
  Generating code:  ...important clue. \sentence{bilski at 3220}. 

Clause citation:
But it is not the only test, Bilski, 130, S. Ct. at 3221, and others may be more
proper.
  Generating code: ...only test, \clause{bilski at 3221}, and...

The generating code is what you should type to cite a reference in sentence or
clause form. Note the period required after \sentence{...}.

You must use one of these forms for every citation to a reference. There is no
id.-citation; the program will automatically determine when id. is appropriate
and insert it for you.


3. FEATURES OF CITATIONS

The contents inside the braces of \sentence and \clause may use any of the
features described below.

To string-cite multiple references, separate them with semicolons:

  \sentence{bilski at 3221; diehr at 188}.

Signals may be introduced by just typing the signal before the nickname, always
in lowercase. Do not repeat signals in the citation, and ensure that signals
go in the proper order.

  \sentence{see mayo; see also flook; see generally chisum}.

You may cite page ranges and multiple page numbers with dashes and commas. Do
not abbreviate page numbers to the last two digits. You may also cite a
reference with no pin cite, if that is desired.

  \sentence{bilski at 3221-3222, 3225; see also flook}.

To cite footnotes, tables, or other subdivisions, fully type out the subdivision
name. You may use S for the section symbol, and P for the paragraph symbol (no
need to double them for multiple sections).

  \sentence{bilski at 3227 note 5, table 1}.
  \sentence{usconst at article 1, S 8, clause 8}.

Parentheticals may be typed just like regular parentheticals.

  \sentence{bilski at 3230 (Stevens, J., dissenting)}.

A parenthetical may include nested citations:

  \sentence{bilski at 3231 (quoting \sentence{flook at 590})}.


4. INLINE CITATIONS

Sometimes you want the name of a case, statute, or other reference inside the
text of a sentence. This is easily done:

  The Court held in \inline{bilski} that...

At the start of a sentence use \Inline instead. This is important, for example,
when the inline citation form starts with a lowercase letter in some cases.

  \Inline{pat375} has over 30 claims.
  -> The '375 Patent has over 30 claims.


